[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>MEGAN ROSE: Spirit marriage
is the bonded and often intimate
relationship between a human
and an otherworldly being.
This extraordinary being
kept showing up in my dreams.
They started asking
me to marry them.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Now, was
this disconcerting at first?
>>ROSE: It was more
like perplexing.
Like, what?
>>REGINA: Did you end
up in a spirit marriage
with this being?
>>ROSE: Yes.
The spirit marriages-- they
happen because that there's
some sort of co-creative project
that only you and your spirit
beloved can do.
We all have the capacity
for this type of union,
for this type of deep bonded
relationship with a spirit.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA: Many years ago,
I interviewed Barbara Lamb,
and the topic of
our conversation
was her spirit marriage
to a reptilian who
was of a more noble type.
Today's guest, Dr. Megan Rose,
learned through her studies
that spirit marriage was
actually a thing historically
and around the world.
Today, she's going to tell
us about this phenomena
in which a human being is
married with a spirit being.
Welcome.
This is a really juicy topic.
I think people find this very--
I found it intriguing when
I interviewed Barbara Lamb,
and that was maybe 15 years ago,
and I haven't talked to anybody
about that since then.
So welcome, Megan.
>>ROSE: Thank you so much.
I'm just thrilled
to be here today.
>>REGINA: May I read something
that I found on your site--
>>ROSE: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: --in your video
about spirit marriage?
You read a little bit
of Thomas Moore's book,
"Care of the Soul."
And this was the quote from it.
"It's in the nature
of things to be
drawn to the very experiences
that will spoil our innocence,
transform our lives, and
give us necessary experience
and depth."
I love that.
I wrote it down at the time.
I paused your video.
And I have to bring
that up because clearly
you brought it up toward
the beginning of your talk,
so it was important to you.
So tell us why that is
important and then weave that
into how you began
in this field.
>>ROSE: Mm-hmm.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Well, the idea that it's sort
of spoiling our innocence
and opening us up,
transforming us,
is what really I find so
juicy about that quote.
And in my own life I was--
I'd done a master's in
seminary and religious studies
and was kind of what I
considered to be pagan-lite.
But I had a very strong
upbringing where,
in my Pentecostal
upbringing, where
channeling the Holy
Spirit was just
sort of par for the course.
That's what we did.
>>REGINA: Opening to
entities, opening to energy,
and letting it flow through
you, so that was part
of your being, your makeup.
>>ROSE: Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: You had
a lot of experience
in experiencing
external energies.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
And, you know, my childhood
was the Holy Spirit primarily.
Although when I was an
infant, less than a year old,
I had a birth defect
in my kidneys.
And the minister, my mom, my
aunts, my grandmother, all
anointed with me with oil and
prayed the Holy Spirit fire
into my body.
So this is like
before I can talk,
before I even know
what's going on.
And so I really trace my
opening back to that moment.
Because that's when the
veils between the world--
before I even knew
that there should
be a veil between the
world-- were thin for me.
And I was raised with just
this tremendous amount
of what I now understand
is chaukdi, this potency.
But as a child, it was just
me channeling the Holy Spirit,
speaking in tongues.
>>REGINA: Did you see beings?
Or did you see the Holy Spirit?
Were these-- were there
any visual perceptions?
Or it was mostly a feeling
moving through you?
>>ROSE: It's the felt sense.
I'm mostly somatic in my
extrasensory capabilities.
And so it was this feeling
like your tail's on fire,
and it's shooting out
the top of your head,
and everything around you
is vibrating at brighter
and brighter speeds.
So growing up like that, I
really only found two places
that I could really feel
grounded and safe in that.
And one was in nature.
I had a tree companion, an
oak tree, a live oak, a huge,
200 year old, and I
used to climb up into it
and rest my spine
against the trunk--
>>REGINA: I relate to that, yes.
>>ROSE: --and sing to it,
and just sing and talk to it.
And so that was one of
the safe places where
that amount of energy and that
extrasensory or otherworldly
perception was really supported.
And I spoke to the
nature spirits.
I spoke to the tree.
And then, also,
in the Pentecostal
services of my
childhood, where I
was the kid with her little
arms raised in the front row,
riding the [CHUCKLES] spirit.
And, I mean, the
interesting thing
is that it felt a lot like just
this powerful erotic energy
flowing through me.
It felt wonderful.
And I think the adults in the
church would sort of think--
>>REGINA: It's getting
out of control a bit here.
[CHUCKLES]
>>ROSE: But it's an
interesting corollary phenomena
between what the
Pentecostals are working with
and what the shamanistic and the
spiritualists-type communities
are doing.
It's kind of the
same thing, but it's
just that it's got this very
regimented, highly structured
way in which it's allowed to be
done in the Pentecostal church.
It was all about the Holy
Spirit, which later I
understood was just
Wisdom, Sophia,
the goddess, the divine feminine
that was moving through me.
>>REGINA: So you go ahead, and
you're a very curious person.
You love education.
So you completed your master's.
Like you say, you were
pagan-lite at this point
in religion.
And then this
something happened,
and you learned about
this other thing.
So let's go ahead
and dive into it.
First of all, give
us a definition
of what spirit marriage
is, and then we'll
kind of back into the story.
>>ROSE: So spirit marriage is
the bonded and often intimate
relationship between a human
and an otherworldly being,
or an extraordinary
being, is what
I kind of prefer to call
them because sometimes they
are of this world.
And it shows up transculturally.
When I first encountered
this phenomenon, which
was in my early 30s, I had gone
through a Kundalini awakening
experience.
And then I-- I like
to say I was sort
of like lit up on
the spirit realms,
and I had to go through the
whole process of learning
how to really safely and
sanely navigate that.
But this extraordinary being
kept showing up in my dreams.
And I knew it was the same
being because my body responded
the same way every
time they would appear.
And over the course
of a few years,
they started asking
me to marry them.
>>REGINA: Now, was this
disconcerting at first?
>>ROSE: Well, it
wasn't disconcerting.
It was more like perplexing.
Like, what?
>>REGINA: Right, yeah.
>>ROSE: Like, what do
you mean, marry you?
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>ROSE: But I had--
in seminary, we
had studied the Book of Enoch,
the early account of the angels
marrying human woman,
and then they're
giving birth to the Nephilim.
And so that appeared
in my mind, or I--
>>REGINA: You
remembered that, yeah.
>>ROSE: --had this reference.
And I was like,
well, this must--
maybe this is a thing.
Like, I think this
might be a thing.
Because from my religious
studies, I remembered--
I started remembering little
pieces like in the Vodou
tradition.
And so I was like, hmm.
So this was early 2000s.
So I think I like,
Netscape 2000ed it--
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>ROSE: --to try
and figure out--
and I think I just typed
in spirit marriage.
I didn't know if
that was the term,
but that's what I typed in
because the spirit wanted
to marry me.
And Ida Craddock came up.
And there was a website
that had been put up
dedicated to this woman who
was an early, 20th-century
spiritualist and who
was married to an angel.
And she wrote this
beautiful treatise
called "Heavenly Bridegrooms."
And it really outlined--
she kind of gave me--
>>REGINA: What was
her name again?
>>ROSE: Ida Craddock.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ROSE: And she
kind of gave me--
she's been one of
my patron spirits
because she kind of gave me the
primer or the basis of where
to start looking.
And so I found--
because she-- in that book,
"Heavenly Bridegrooms,"
she talks about the
tradition of spirit marriage.
And she's done a pretty
good job of tracing it,
although she wasn't
an academic herself.
But she is somebody that,
like the ceremonial magicians,
have sainthood because
she was a sexologist.
She advocated for the
radical [GASP] idea
that women should
enjoy sex, right?
And, also, women sort of
embodied spirituality.
She was a forerunner
of that and this thing
called spirit marriage.
And so I was like, OK,
so I'm not off my rocker.
There's something here.
And I just need to
dig into it more,
and that the more I dug into it,
the more I became fascinated.
And also it was
enhancing my own contact.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about your
own contact for a little bit
with this being.
So this being had
been appearing,
and they asked
you to marry them.
What was the nature
of the being?
And what was the
nature of-- what did
your relationship develop into?
>>ROSE: Mm-hmm.
Yes.
So the nature of the
being was twofold.
So he showed up, and it
was mostly presenting
as a male sort of energy.
It showed up as the either
an angelic-type being,
like brilliant light or this
really chthonic, underworld,
erotic energy, and that was
sort of this darker energy.
And not dark as an evil,
but dark as in, like,
the loamy, rich, under-Earth,
where all the really great soil
is, like that kind of
Horned God kind of energy.
And sometimes they
showed up together
as twins, one
light and one dark.
And sometimes they would show
up either one or the other.
And so that confused me because
I was like, is this two beings?
Is this one being?
And I decided to write
the dissertation--
to do the dissertation
kind of because
that I was trying to
figure this out myself.
And being an academic, I thought
if I put my scholar hat on,
and I look at this from
all across the globe,
maybe it'll help
me figure out how
to figure out my own contact.
>>REGINA: And did you
end up in a spirit
marriage with this being?
>>ROSE: Yes.
Yes.
So it took me about 10
years to really work
through my own
preconceptions of what
I had about the
underworld, about
these deep, powerful,
potent beings.
And so I had to go
through some really
decolonisation of
my own thinking
as well as really understanding
the role, the role.
>>REGINA: Because you
had preconceptions--
>>ROSE: Sure.
>>REGINA: --about what dark,
and loamy, and erotic meant.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
Being raised Pentecostal,
those were no-nos.
>>REGINA: Right.
Those are no-nos.
Yeah.
>>ROSE: [CHUCKLES]
>>REGINA: So did
you ultimately come
to understand that it was
the full depth of one being?
>>ROSE: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: It was both
sides, both that were
being brought to the table?
>>ROSE: Yeah.
So here's the interesting thing.
One of my teachers,
Craig Chalquist,
writes about our
own personal myth.
And one of the things
that came forward
was that I was in an experience,
or in a relationship,
with these two beings
that are really one being,
but kind of like the Triple
Goddess, where she is her,
but she has a few
different faces.
This being also had two
different faces, almost
like a Janus character,
but more of this light
and this kind of dark aspect.
>>REGINA: Were you afraid
of the darker aspect?
>>ROSE: There were
parts of me that were.
Like, intellectually
I got to the point
where I understood
what the role was.
But somatically, because
of all of that really
fundamentalist upbringing,
I had to really do
some work around my--
and, you know, that
dark, that underworld,
it's all of our ancestors.
So a lot of it was about doing--
and getting right
with my ancestors,
and doing ancestral
offerings and working
to disentangle ancestral
karma, things like that.
And this is where--
I should say that I began a
7-year initiation as a Faery
Seership practitioner.
And that really helped me
because fairy world is all
about--
>>REGINA: Yeah, let's explain
that a little bit too.
Finish what you're saying and
then explain that to us a bit.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
So I began my work as a
Faery Seership practitioner,
apprenticing to Orion Foxwood.
And it's a 7-year-plus
apprenticeship where
that's what we do, is we go into
the realms of the ancestors,
and we go into the realms of
the fairy beings, which are--
unlike what often is thought of
as, like, TinkerBell, sprite,
that sort of Disneyana
version of a fairy being,
the fairy, as we sort of orient
around them with Faery Seership
is more of the ancient
primordial beings
that came to this planet, helped
form and shape this planet,
and then at some
point sort of receded.
So it's not unlike
JRR Tolkien's story
of what happens with the elves.
He, in fact, based his elf
characters on what we--
what I refer to as fairy.
But they're very
similar in energy
and in folkloric accounts.
And so this
apprenticeship really
helped me ground, disentangle,
and get really good and nice
and rooted.
Carl Jung says a
tree can only grow
as high as the roots go deep.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Right.
>>ROSE: So I had to grow my
roots down really, really deep
to manage all of this shakti,
all of this potency energy
at one time.
>>REGINA: So now you're
looking into an interfacing
with the Elemental
Kingdom, right?
>>ROSE: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: And, now,
how did that help you
specifically on your
journey in your dream time?
>>ROSE: It was
primarily in dreams,
but then as I studied
and apprenticed,
I developed other skills that
I could journey with and go
into journey and visual
states that helped me connect.
And also there's
tools and techniques
that we learned as Faery
Seership practitioners.
>>REGINA: So is this an
on-- for you, personally--
an ongoing relationship, then?
>>ROSE: Yes.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So, like I said, it
took me about 10 years
to get to the point
where I really had
a strong cosmological location.
And that was the point
where my contact, Gwyn,
who is the Celtic or the Welsh
Lord of the fairy people,
revealed himself to
me, like his name.
And this isn't uncommon in these
types of relationships, where
we often go through
a time of testing
or a time of really learning the
somatic nuances and the flavor
of our contacts.
And sometimes the name will
come right away, but often
with the fairy people, it
comes quite a bit later
once you've demonstrated
a certain amount of trust
and reliability.
So the interesting thing
about Gwyn is that--
I didn't know this
before I received
the name and the contact--
was that he actually has
a dark and a light face.
Oh,
>>REGINA: Interesting, yeah.
>>ROSE: So a lot of
the folkloric accounts
that I found later on verified
the experiential accounts I
was having up until then.
>>REGINA: Now, we're going
to-- in a little while,
we're going to talk about
what humans gain from this.
But let's talk about
from the other side,
from Gwyn's side, what are they
gaining from this experience
with the human realm?
>>ROSE: Yeah, well, they do
things that we can't, right?
But we do lots of
things that they
can't, like have a wonderful
embodied experience,
have an experience of art
and music and literature--
>>REGINA: Creativity.
>>ROSE: --creativity, exactly.
And we have wonderful
things we can taste
and smell and touch
and experience.
And so-- in fact,
one of the women
that I cite in my book is
married to a plant spirit,
Ajo Sacha, which I
believe is wild garlic.
And she did a diet-- a
dieta-- with this plant,
and he married her.
And she said, why would
you want to marry me?
And he said, because the human
body is such a wonderful thing
to experience.
So here we have a being
that has never been human,
that is just this plant
spirit teacher that then
wants to merge with this human.
>>REGINA: To have
that experience,
that five sense or more
beyond sense experience.
>>ROSE: And he said,
if you can just
maintain a body that is
friendly to me, meaning not too
much toxins in her system,
then I can co-experience.
And then what she benefited
from was the wisdom
that this plant spirit teacher
was willing and able to impart
to her.
>>REGINA: OK.
Before we go into more
of that-- because I also
want to find out
things, you know,
really practical
things like does this
happen with people
who are already
married to human people?
Does this happen mostly
to single people?
And, in your
experience, as you've
encountered many
through your research,
of how this actually
works because I'm sure
our audience will be curious.
But first of all, let's go into
the history of spirit marriage
and what you dug up when you
were working on your thesis.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And from around there,
just kind of hopscotch around
the planet if that had--
>>ROSE: Sure, sure.
>>REGINA: --shown up.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
Well, the earliest recorded
account that we have
is in ancient Mesopotamia, so
the Sumerian sacred marriage.
And in this, the
priest or the priestess
would marry the goddess Inanna.
And they would then
serve as her betrothed.
And there would be certain
rites that they performed.
And a lot of the conversation
around the sacred marriage
rituals--
for academics, it's more, was
this just a visualized thing?
Or was there two human proxies?
And I would like to
offer that it actually
was a royal sexual ritual where
the priest or the priestess
had a deep bonded intimate
relationship with the deity.
And we see evidence of this.
So if you move into the Indic
traditions of North India
and Nepal, you see
that spirit marriage
happens between a deity
or sometimes an Ishta Devi
or Deva, which is
the chosen deity
or kind of like the patron
saint of that practitioner.
But then sometimes you may
have your chosen deity,
and then you may also have
a deity that you marry.
And that is-- that
example, I like
to think of kind of
like seasoning you.
Like if you're working with
your divine self, or your patron
deity, that's like
your flavor already,
and you're just bringing
more of that flavor through.
But when you marry
a deity that is
maybe outside of
your regular ray
or your energy, your
seasoning, you're
bringing in something
that-- some skill,
some tool that you didn't
even necessarily have before.
So that then is in
the Indian tradition,
it shows up in China as the
ghost marriage or the Ninshu.
In fact, there was a fun
Netflix series that was out
called "The Ghost Bride"--
>>REGINA: I wrote that down.
>>ROSE: --that was
all about that.
>>REGINA: Really?
>>ROSE: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: That's fascinating.
I didn't know
anything about that.
>>ROSE: It was set
in Singapore, but--
>>REGINA: See, now, I'll
have to check that out.
That sounds quite
interesting, fun.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
There's actually a whole
bunch of academic research
about this Singapore
ghost bride marriages.
>>REGINA: And some
of the other--
Greece, this also--
>>ROSE: Oh, well,
Greece, like, you know, I
mean we hear more about the
Greeks sort of philandering
with humans.
We don't hear as much about the
actual bonding and marriage.
>>REGINA: They didn't
make a commitment.
>>ROSE: They didn't.
But I like-- I've relooked at
the myth of Cupid and Psyche.
And I think it actually is
a really shining example
of a spirit marriage.
Because here we have
Psyche, who's a human woman.
And we have this sort of--
to her, at least, this
unknown being, this spirit,
this deity that's coming to her.
And she can't look at him.
She can't see his face.
And that's really, often,
what people go through
in the beginning
unless they have
a very clearly defined
deity that appears to them
and asks for marriage.
Sometimes there's a period
of trying to figure out
who you're talking to, which is
why discernment and discernment
tools are so key.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we're
going to get into that.
>>ROSE: But in the case of
Cupid, it took her a while.
And she had to go through
all of these trials.
And then she eventually
marries him, sees his radiance,
and is herself transformed
by that marriage.
She's given immortality.
>>REGINA: And so also-- so
we have Africa, China, also
Great Britain of people who
married fairy beings and such.
So the history of
this is global.
>>ROSE: It's global.
I mean, it's there
anthropologically.
It's there historically.
It's there in
spades in folklore.
And then also in
religion, the idea
of virgin birth, which I
know you've talked with--
>>REGINA: Marguerite, mm-hmm.
>>ROSE: Marguerite Rigoglioso.
Marguerite was actually
really instrumental
in my early research.
She was on my
committee at one point.
And this idea that
Yashua, that Jesus,
was the offspring of
a human-deity union--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ROSE: --and that that was
a kind of spirit marriage,
or at least a kind
of spirit lover.
>>REGINA: I think we talked
about in our last interview,
yeah, and the nature of the
Marys as the vehicles for--
>>ROSE: So we see this.
We see this even in
our Western traditions.
We just haven't really--
nobody's really brought
all the threads together.
That's what I hope
this research does,
is it brings these
threads together
and gets people from
disparate communities
and disparate
experiences talking,
so that folks know that
it's not just them.
They're not the only one.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about the discernment part
because I'm sure some of
our audience will be saying,
well, how do you
know it's not just
a rich imagination,
or a hallucination,
or an entity and an issue
of possession, for example?
So tell us about the
discretion part of it.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
So discernment really begins
with knowing thyself and really
understanding, what are
my hot button issues?
Like we talked about
and, like, my hot button
issue around the underworld.
And so there is a
certain amount of lifting
one does psychologically
to really get right
with the spirits and to really
understand that we bring things
to the relationship like we do
with any human relationship.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ROSE: I think what's most
important about understanding
spirit marriage is it's just
like it's a relationship, just
like any relationship,
whether it's
a human or an
otherworldly being.
>>REGINA: Except who
leaves the toilet seat up,
a little different issues.
>>ROSE: You may not have
to-- different issues,
but you still go through the
getting to know you phase.
So there's-- it's like
you would date a human.
I mean, I would hope that most
people wouldn't meet somebody
and get married the next day.
There's a getting
to know you phase.
And that's part of
cultivating the discernment.
And I think one of the
things that's most useful
is having folks that
you can turn to,
spiritual advisors or people
within your community,
that understand
the nature of this,
and then can really
help guide you.
And sometimes you
don't even necessarily
need an entire spirit
marriage community around you
if you just have a really good
spiritual advisor or somebody
that can help guide you through.
That's one of the
things that kind of
came out of most of
these traditions,
is very few people go it alone.
Because in some cases,
in some traditions,
the deity marriage is only
entered into if the deity is--
or the spirit has appeared
to someone other than you--
>>REGINA: OK.
And so it's-- so you--
>>ROSE: --and is like,
I want to marry them.
>>REGINA: --so there's
some validation
that it's not your imagination,
and that would make sense.
>>ROSE: Mm-hmm.
Right.
And Orion Foxwood, who is
my Faery Seership mentor,
in his case, his mentor,
Dolores Ashcroft-Nowiki
was in meditation, and
his soon-to-be spirit wife
appeared to her, and said,
I want him to marry me.
And Orion's a gay man.
And he's like, why does this
fairy woman want to marry me?
But there was a whole tradition,
the Faery Seership tradition,
that was born out of that union.
And so she appeared to Dolores.
And Dolores went to
Orion, and was like,
you need to marry her.
And he was like,
oh, my goodness,
is this like a shotgun wedding?
[LAUGHTER]
But then he spent time--
he had known the spirit.
He had been working with this
spirit for a number of years.
But he just thought she was
this powerful, primordial being.
>>REGINA: He didn't think he
was going to have to get--
>>ROSE: Didn't think he was
going to have to commit.
>>REGINA: --that deep and
make a commitment, yeah.
>>ROSE: But then a lot of
his books and teachings
and practices have flown
out of their relationship.
So I think that discernment is
learning our inner hot-button
issues and--
as well as having validation
from a trusted advisor
or support person.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I would think one of
the things coming up
is, right now the energies
are very challenging for a lot
of people.
And a lot of people
are struggling
with human relationships.
And might there be a
temptation to not only want
a spiritual union, but even
conjure a spiritual union
through imagination and desire?
>>ROSE: That is
absolutely possible to do.
We read that in ceremonial
magic traditions, the conjuring
of a familiar spirit.
And I think that the
question that I would ask
is, what is your outcome?
What is your purpose for that?
Is it for healing
and for a salve
while you're lonely, or lost,
or frightened, or whatever?
What I try to encourage
my students to do is,
if they're not sure, if they're
sort of longing for something--
and this is where the devotional
piece really comes in--
is to find a deity, find
a divine loving presence
that you feel safe
and held and loved by
and that you can then
develop your relationship
with that being.
>>REGINA: So might
this be, say, beings
that you've read about
in various traditions?
Or what kind of being?
Any type of being that
you resonate with strongly
and feel safe with?
>>ROSE: I think that for someone
who is looking to, as you were
saying, sort of conjure
or manifest this kind
of relationship, that starting
with a being that is sort
of known by a name and a
cosmological location that has
maybe some characteristics
built up around them,
already formulated
around that entity,
is probably going to be a
little bit safer than just being
in sort of an open-- and
I'm saying because I went
in the open--
I kind of did it the hard way.
I said it took me so
long to constellate
and around who my
contacts were or are.
And that's partly because
that going up beneath
is this really
ancient deity that
is not widely acknowledged.
So it wasn't
something I could have
had an immediate identification
with, although I knew
he was really connected to the
animals, and to the nature,
and also to the horned, like the
horned beings, like Cernunnos
or a Herne the Hunter
kind of energy.
But it took me a
while to get the name,
so for folks that are wanting
to just jump in and begin
a practice, I'd say--
>>REGINA: Of
conjuring or creating.
>>ROSE: --yeah, start
manifesting something,
find a deity that
really turns you on.
Find a deity that you really
have that sense of longing
towards because our
sacred longing is
like the key to this practice.
>>REGINA: And doesn't that
exist in most human beings?
We just don't know how to engage
with one another on that level.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because of so many
filters, so many programs,
so much trauma to
the human species.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
Yeah.
And so, to your question about
folks that are in relationship
or not in relationship, I see
across the board people who
are single and called
into these, people
who are in existing
relationships
and are called into
a spirit marriage.
It helps if your partner
is either in the tradition
that you're working
in or understands
somewhat of what's going on.
Because it ends up
being a negotiation,
kind of like a polyamorous
relationship, where you're
having to negotiate
anywhere from one
night a month to
three nights a week,
depending on the tradition.
>>REGINA: But if it's
happening during dream time--
>>ROSE: Well, there's--
>>REGINA: --a lot of the time.
>>ROSE: A lot of
the time it can.
But that's not the only way
that people experience this.
Some people have--
I've just always had
very, very strong dreams
and precognitive kinds
of prophetic dreams.
So that's been mostly
one of my main areas.
Plus, it's where I can turn-- my
academic brain gets turned off
so that I have to just
go with whatever shows up
and not analyze it to death.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
So, it's a negotiation
like, as you say,
even if it was
another human being.
And I would imagine
that there are
people that become
very threatened by it
if the quality of
that relationship
is really drawing
their partner in.
So these are just some
of the practical issues.
What about the notion that
what we're being drawn into
might also be an
aspect of ourselves?
>>ROSE: Yeah, absolutely.
Well, I think that's
what's wonderful
about the constellation
or the fractal that
is the human consciousness,
that's the human psyche.
Because we have our sort
of localized human psyche
that is our mundane self.
And then we have
our higher self.
And then in
ceremonial traditions,
they talk about the
holy guardian angel
that sits sort of above even our
higher self or our wise self,
and that kind of like a
patron deity or patron saint.
And the way I think of it
is, we're the fingertip on--
that is touching into the
physical, that is expressing
the body of the deity.
And that is our incarnated--
we can push matter around.
Like, they can't.
And so we're all
nested back here.
But another fingertip
might be another person.
>>REGINA: And--
>>ROSE: And so in the
idea of spirit marriage,
we can both marry our
divine self, and that
could be our spirit spouse.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
kind of what I'm wondering.
It gets to the subject
of a twin souls,
for example, where perhaps you--
I mean, in different
traditions, you start as one.
You split apart into
male/female rays.
You have your experience
throughout incarnation.
Sometimes you connect
in the physical world
in some kind of relationship.
But for many of these
times you don't.
There's lifetimes you're not
connected with that being,
that other part of yourself.
And so is it possible that
some of these spirit unions
are you and say your twin
self, your twin flame?
>>ROSE: Yeah.
I think that that is one of
the ways that these show up.
So I think that
sometimes we incarnate
with a twin soul or a soul
mate at the same time.
And then I think sometimes
they're in the spiritual
and we're in the physical.
>>REGINA: Right.
That's what I'm referring to.
>>ROSE: And then sometimes we're
both in the spiritual together.
And so we might be
part of the monad
of a particular ray of creation,
or a deity, or an archetype.
And then that splits, and
splits, and splits, and splits,
and we have soul families.
And then we may
have another split
where we're the twin soul.
And that we,
oftentimes-- and this
has shown up in many
of my co-researchers,
so we haven't talked
as much about the folks
that I talked to
when I wrote my book.
But I interviewed nine
different practitioners
from seven different traditions,
widely disparate traditions,
everywhere from African
traditional religion
to Faery Seership to witchcraft.
And they all-- these were
very high-level ministers,
spiritual people,
in their tradition
that had spirit marriages.
But one of the
threads in that is
that they felt
like that they had
been married to the
spirit being lifetime
after lifetime after lifetime.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
That's what I'm wondering
about, and that's
why I asked that question.
And we are multidimensional.
>>ROSE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So we have
to remember-- yeah,
it's natural for us to be
able to reach into other
dimensions--
>>ROSE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --and to connect
with other beings including
ourselves.
So let's-- OK, let's
get practical now.
And if you want, you can
give an example of it.
Like, when is it appropriate?
And under what conditions
and what kind of person
is really most successful
in this endeavor?
>>ROSE: Yeah.
So I think that the kind
of person is anyone.
We all have a divine self
that we can fall in love with.
We all have a
divine self that we
can aspire to bring more
of that energy into who
and what we do in the world.
So you can marry
your divine self.
You can also just sort of
embody your divine self.
It's a fine line, but I've
interviewed a Shakta Tantric
who is both married
to the goddess Kali,
and Kali is also her Ishta Devi.
So-- and some traditions,
they kind of don't do that.
But it is-- there
is precedent for it.
So we all have a divine
self we can reach to.
And then, also,
if the spirit has
been asking you to
marry them, it's
a good idea to
follow that thread.
It's a good idea to
follow through with that.
And I'm not saying that
you have to marry them,
but you want to
get to know them.
You want to understand why.
And what would be the purpose?
Because one of the
things that I think
is really powerful about
spirit marriages is they--
versus just sort of being
in a contracted channeling
agreement or a kind of
possessory, where it comes in
and then it goes out, or comes
forward and then proceeds
back--
is that the spirit
marriage is, by and large,
from my research--
they happen because
that there's some sort
of co-creative project that
only you and your spirit beloved
can do.
And the intimacy of
that, the union--
what's called the indwelling
or the merging of those two
beings-- creates a third
being or a love child.
In my case, it's this research.
It's this book that was the love
child of my union with Gwyn.
And that is because
that the time is right.
This research needs to get
out as we're moving towards,
hopefully, evolving our
consciousness as a species.
This is one of the ways
that this can happen,
these co-creative projects
with our spirit beloveds.
>>REGINA: And one of
the things you say
is that this can really
help us advance ourselves
by having this
kind of commitment
with someone in another
dimension, another being,
a non-Earth being.
In what ways-- you just talked
about your book, but maybe
an anecdote or two of some other
people you know of and the ways
it's enhanced their Earth
experience, their lives,
their understanding.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
One of my co-researchers,
Caroline Kenner,
is both a witchcraft
practitioner--
and she works in a few
different traditions--
and was trained to do
shamanistic-type work.
And her spirit beloved--
she actually is an
interesting example
because she's married to
a few different-- so she
has a sort of, by the nature
of her many spirit marriages,
is in this sort of
interesting polyamorous
relationship with the spirits.
And they really enhance
her gifts and her ability
to do extraction work for folks,
to journey for people, to do--
to help with healing.
And that's a pretty typical
gift that comes from the gifts
of the spirit, is the ability
to bless, the ability to heal,
the pre-cognisance to be
able to see things that--
>>REGINA: To remove
interfering energies?
>>ROSE: Mm-hmm.
Cleansing work, disentangling
work, all of that really comes,
and it's such a
psycho-emotional,
like a subtle body
shift that happens.
But it also is known to give the
gift of prophecy, of eloquence,
and these particularly
are associated with some
of the fairy traditions.
But you hear about Thomas the
Rhymer, wed the fairy Queen
and was given this gift
of prophecy and also
beautiful poetics.
And he's an actual
historical figure.
Thomas of Ercildoun, who
is a Scottish laird that
married this fairy woman and
was a man of really well renown
and standing that we still
have writings from to this day.
So--
>>REGINA: So that kind
of inspiration coming in
through the other side.
So let's talk about
the practical notion
of protocols or precautions,
a cautionary tale.
>>ROSE: Well, I mean
the cautionary tales,
I think, happen
when they're rushed,
when the relationships
are rushed,
and you really don't have the
support around you to discern.
>>REGINA: What can happen?
I mean--
>>ROSE: Well, I mean, we're
moving a little bit more
into just spirit
communication here
because once you've gotten to
the marriage, you've said, yes.
In many traditions, they
say they can't be undone.
However, I will
tell you that I do
know of an instance of someone
who got into a marriage,
didn't like how things were
going, and divorced them.
So a lot of people
that hold these
say that they're entwined
for the rest of your life.
But I think that has to
do more with the cosmology
of the spirit that you're with.
So like with fairy beings--
because it's such a long
and labored process to merge
and mingle with them in
that way to end well--
I think that it is kind of like,
you just get grafted together.
But in other traditions,
you can divorce.
So divorce isn't out of
the-- it's not off the table.
But you want to really be able
to have a community around you
that can uphold and support
you and is sort of your check
and balance, like any
spiritual community,
healthy spiritual community.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Right.
Now can you-- and we just
have a few minutes left.
Can you imagine living your life
without your spiritual marriage
partner?
>>ROSE: Given that I--
the more I feel into that
relationship, the more I think
he's been with me
my whole life--
>>REGINA: And maybe
other lifetimes.
>>ROSE: --and lifetimes
before, I can't imagine.
I think that it would be
like the loss of a limb,
like only part of me is here.
And I think that we
all have the capacity
for this type of union, for
this type of deep bonded
relationship with spirit.
Even if you start with
your divine self, that
rarefied aspect
of you, that often
will bring in other seasoning.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, is it sometimes
not maybe an issue
of coming into a collaboration
or ultimately a marriage
with a spirit
guide, for example?
>>ROSE: That's absolutely
possible, yeah,
because one of the things that
I think my research uncovered
that's really exciting
is that people are--
particularly here in
the United States,
people enter into
spirit marriages
with beloved dead and sort
of elevated beloved dead, not
Aunt Matilda.
[CHUCKLES]
But it is--
I don't know-- want to say it's
a uniquely American phenomenon,
although I have heard about
this marriage with beloved dead
or elevated beloved dead mostly
from American practitioners.
And I think that's kind
of indicative of how
we have such a pastiche
of different cultures
and different traditions
here, that there isn't
just one pantheon
that-- or one group
that folks are working with.
>>REGINA: In summary, it
seems like what this also
does is it brings a
re-enchantment to life
in a world that feels as though
it's become too mechanical, too
doctrinaire, dogmatic.
And people are feeling
a loss of energy
and too many control systems.
And it sounds like
this is a way to be
able to move beyond that into
that enchanted aspect of self
again.
>>ROSE: Absolutely.
Yeah.
I think that the re-enchantment
of the world is our--
that and our own conscious
evolution as a species
are the two things that
will save us as a planet.
>>REGINA: I believe so too.
Any final thoughts
before we sign off?
>>ROSE: I would just say that,
by and large, the spirits that
are out there that want
to work with humans
love us and want to
uphold us and support us.
And that there is support,
and there's guidance out there
for folks that are
trying to navigate
this type of intimate
relationship.
And I hope that our offering
here today gives people
a little more insight
and grounding.
>>REGINA: Oh, I think it has.
There's so much fuel
for thought there.
And not only that, we have to
realize we don't necessarily--
if we're not inclined to
say, I want to go all the way
into this thing and make
a commitment, we have to--
it just opens up to
the notion that we're
surrounded by so many entities,
so much love, so much support.
We can enter into a BFF
relationship, with someones.
>>ROSE: Absolutely, yes.
>>REGINA: It doesn't
have to be a marriage.
[CHUCKLES]
>>ROSE: Just like, there's
lots of different ways in which
relationships--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>ROSE: --are constellated.
So it doesn't have
to be marriage.
>>REGINA: So just
know that this world
is here around us and
whispering and speaking
to us all of the time.
And be discerning.
Be aware.
>>ROSE: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
I know you've given
lots of our viewers
some food for thought here.
And I think this is
an intriguing idea
to bring back the
notion of our connection
with not only our higher
selves, our ancestors,
and beings from beyond, and
they can look or show up
as anything, really, but
to reengage with the unseen
world in a more profound way.
>>ROSE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
You can pick up a copy
of "Spirit Marriage"
through major booksellers.
Meanwhile, to connect with
Megan or join in her workshops,
you can go to drmeganrose.com.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]